start making a list of JPQL functions (#50)
jakartaee/query: spec/src/main/asciidoc/chapters/language/expressions.adoc

==== Function calls

A _function call_ is the name of a function recognized by the Jakarta Query implementation, followed by a parenthesized list of argument expressions, with syntax given by:

- `function_expression` in the core language, or
- `#functions_returning_strings#`, `#functions_returning_datetime#`, and `#functions_returning_numerics#` in the full grammar of the extended language.

This specification defines the standard functions listed in the table below.

NOTE: Functions highlighted in yellow belong to the extended language and are not required for an implementation of the core language.

[cols="15,15,15,15,~"]
|===
| Function name | Parameters | Parameter types | Type | Semantics

| `abs` | 1 | Any numeric type | Same as argument | Evaluates to the absolute value of the numeric value to which its argument evaluates.

> | `#sign#` | 1 | Numeric | Integer | Evaluates to the sign of the numeric value of its argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `#sign#` | 1 | Numeric | Integer | Evaluates to the sign (-1, 0, or 1) of the numeric value of its argument.
```

> | `#mod#` | 2 | Both integer | Integer | Evaluates to the remainder when its first integer argument is divided by its second integer argument.

Reviewer: We should mention how negative numbers are handled.

Reviewer: Yeah, I was wondering if that might be the case. Let's explicitly state behavior is undefined for negative so that user will realize that if they attempt it, they are relying on the database behavior, which is not portable.

> | `#mod#` | 2 | Both integer | Integer | Evaluates to the remainder when its first integer argument is divided by its second integer argument.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this for undefined?
```suggestion
| `#mod#` | 2 | Both integer | Integer | Evaluates to the remainder when its first integer argument is divided by its second integer argument. The behavior is undefined when either or both of the arguments are negative and depends on the data store that is used.
```

| `#replace#` | 3 | All strings | String | Evaluates to a new string formed by replacing every occurrence of the second argument string within the first argument string with the third argument string.
| `#locate#` | 2 or 3 | String, string, integer | Integer | Evaluates to the position at which one string occurs within a second string, optionally ignoring any occurrences that begin before a specified character position in the second string. It returns the first character position within the second string (after the specified character position, if any) at which the first string occurs, as an integer, where the first character of the second string is denoted by 1. That is, the first argument is the string to be searched for; the second argument is the string to be searched in; the optional third argument is an integer representing the character position at which the search starts (by default, 1, the first character of the second string). If the first string does not occur within the second string, 0 is returned.

> | `#size#` | 1 | Collection | Integer | Evaluates to the number of elements of the collection produced by evaluating its argument.

Reviewer: This was a somewhat difficult to read at first. I think switching to the style of language used by the `length` function is helpful,

```suggestion
| `#size#` | 1 | Collection | Integer | Evaluates to the number of elements in the collection to which its argument evaluates.
```

- The `abs()` function is assigned the type of its numeric argument, and evaluates to the absolute value of the numeric value to which its argument evaluates. Its argument must be of numeric type.

- The `#sign()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.Integer`, and evaluates to the sign of the numeric value to which its argument evaluates. Its argument must be of numeric type.

> - The `#mod()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.Integer` and evaluates to the remainder when its first integer argument is divided by its second integer argument.

Reviewer: We should mention how negative numbers are handled.

- The `#concat()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.String`, and evaluates to the concatenation of its arguments, all of which must be of type `java.lang.String`. There must be at least one argument.

- The `#substring()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.String`. The second and third arguments of the `substring()` function denote the starting position and length of the substring to be returned. These arguments are integers. The third argument is optional. If it is not specified, the substring from the start position to the end of the string is returned. The first position of a string is denoted by 1.

- The `#trim()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.String`. The `TRIM` function trims a specified character from a string. If the character to be trimmed is not specified, it will be assumed to be space (or blank). The optional `trim_character` is a single-character string literal or a character-valued input parameter (i.e., `char` or `Character`).

- The `#replace()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.String`. It replaces all occurrences within the first argument

> string of the second argument string with the third argument string.

Reviewer: This was difficult to read. Hopefully this helps improve it,
```suggestion
- The `#replace()#` function is assigned the type `java.lang.String`. It finds all occurrences of the second argument string within the first argument string and returns a new string in which the occurrences are replaced with the third argument string.
```
